#summary Compiling and uploading firmware to the Surveyor SVS
#labels surveyorsvs,blackfin,firmware

These instructions assume an Ubuntu Linux operating system.  The procedure for other distros may vary slightly.

*1.  Download the toolchain* and uncompress to a directory of your choosing.

    The blackfin tools can be found at:

        [http://www.surveyor.com/blackfin/#blackfin4]

*2.  Copy the uncompressed files to root*, like this:

{{{
sudo cp -r opt /
}}}

*3.  Add the directories to your path*

{{{
gedit /home/<username>/.profile
}}}

    Add the following to the end of the file:

{{{
PATH=/opt/uClinux/bfin-elf/bin/:$PATH
export PATH

PATH=/opt/uClinux/bfin-uclinux/bin/:$PATH
export PATH
}}}

If, like me, you get these paths wrong or mis-spelled them log in using the "Gnome failsafe" option at the login screen, then re-edit your _.profile_ file accordingly.

*4.  Install the xmodem file transfer program*

{{{
sudo apt-get install lrzsz
}}}

*5.  Grab a copy of the firmware* from

[http://code.google.com/p/surveyor-srv1-firmware/]

then uncompress it.

*6.*  Within the _blackfin/srv_ directory there are two scripts called _load1_ and _load2_.  *Edit these to the IP address* of the SVS.

The load1 script looks like this:

{{{
trap "" 2
echo type X [enter], then control-C, to start XMODEM file transfer of srv1.ldr:
nc 169.254.0.10 10001
sleep 1
sx -Xkbv --tcp-client 169.254.0.10:10001 srv1.ldr
sleep 1
echo
echo make certain that file transfer successfully completed, then
echo type zZ [enter] to write srv1-c.ldr to the flash boot sector:
nc 169.254.0.10 10001
}}}

Notice that the trap command is used to prevent the script from terminating when CTRL-C is pressed.  The _sx_ command may also vary slightly between distos.

*7.*  Open a terminal and cd to the directory where you extracted the firmware source code.  Then type:

{{{
cd blackfin/srv

make clean

make
}}}

If all is well in the world the compilation should complete successfully, with something like the following:

{{{
Creating LDR srv1.ldr ...
Adding DXE 'srv1.bin' ... 
[initcode 208] [jump block] 
[ELF block: 33976 @ 0x00000000] 
[ELF block:     16428 @ 0xFF800000] 
[ELF block: 14428 @ 0xFF900000] 
[ELF block: 31104 @ 0xFFA00000] OK!
Done!
}}}

*8.  Run the load1 and load2 scripts* to download the firmware.  